Description
---------------
The Bible module for Xaraya aims to be a full-featured, high-quality
searching and reference tool for the Bible.


Background and History
---------------
This my latest of nearly a half-dozen CMS-based online Bible study tool
implementations.  My goal has ever been to provide a high-quality search and
lookup engine.  But as I was also learning PHP, deciding what CMS I would focus
on, and struggling to obtain a stable source of Bible texts, I was from time to
time inclined to do major rewrites, sometimes borrowing a few important
functions, but usually scrapping 100% of it and beginning anew.

The last implementation was phpBible, part of a joint project started by
Eduard Wustenveld which he called OnlineBible (not to be confused with Online
Bible, http://www.onlinebible.net/, written for the Windows desktop).  I was
obliged to abandon phpBible in early 2003 due to time constraints, though by
that point I had made one Xaraya release.

Almost a year later, during Winter break 2003-04, I scrapped phpBible and wrote
Bible for Xaraya. This release is superior to everything else I've written, for
several reasons.  First, my PHP skills are (IMHO) much matured.  Second, I have
found a stable set of Bible texts.  Third, Xaraya itself has stabilized (1.0
came out very recently) and has all indications of being a top-notch CMS that
is here to stay.  I have also incorporated some major architectural epiphanies
I've had since writing phpBible.

You might wonder why it took me almost 2 years to release Bible for Xaraya
publicly.  (Has it really been that long?!?)  I always intended to release
it, but as I am in Medical School now, it has taken me a long time to finish
the "last 10%" that was needed.  Now, in time for the Winter 2005-2006 holiday
season, and in the spirit of giving such as is embodied in the GPL and in my
own spiritual persuasion, I have determined to release it.


Dependencies
---------------
none


Installation
---------------
Module installation begins in the standard Xaraya way:
1. Upload files to the modules directory
2. Go to Modules Admin and initialize the module

But there's more:
3. Configure the module by going to Bible Admin => Modify Config.  Set your
   Bible text directory and make sure it is readable by the web server.  If you
   want to store the Bible text tables in another database, you MUST configure
   this before proceeding.
4. Install Bible texts.  Upload them to your Bible text directory.  See below
   for more information about texts.


Bible Texts: Creating
---------------------
This module uses Bible texts in verse-per-line (VPL) format, such as:

   Genesis 1:1 In the beginning <RB>God created the heavens and the earth.
   Genesis 1:2 Now the earth was formless and empty. Darkness was on the surface of the deep. Gods Spirit was hovering over the surface of the waters.<CM>
   Genesis 1:3 God said, Let there be light, and there was light.
   Genesis 1:4 God saw the light, and saw that it was good. God divided the light from the darkness.
   etc...

However you can achieve that is fine, but the book names must correspond to
what is used by The Sword Project (http://www.crosswire.org/sword/).  The
easiest way is to install Sword and the texts you want on your computer, and
export them.  You can use Sword's mod2vpl utility.

Texts must have an extension of .vpl and may not be compressed.  However, they
can be compressed or deleted from your filesystem after installing.  On a *nix
command line, exporting can be done as follows, using the KJV Bible as an
example:

   /path/to/your/mod2vpl KJV 1 > kjv.vpl

Note the number "1" after the text name.  This tells mod2vpl to export the
reference as well as the text of the verse.  Google for "mod2vpl" and similar
if you need help.  Or ask the nice Sword people about it.  (But DON'T ask them
to export texts for you.  Bug me about it instead.)

Texts can be enhanced by uploading the .conf file directly from your Sword
installation directories.  This tells the Bible module more about the text
and makes for a nicer Table of Contents page.  The .conf file may NOT be
deleted after the text is installed.  Sword .conf files can be found in:

   /path/to/your/sword/mods.d/

Make sure your .vpl and your .conf file have the same base name, or the Bible
module might not recognize that they're related.

A limited number of texts are available at my website (see below for the URL.
You're welcome to bug me about making additional versions available, but I
cannot guarantee that I will have the time or the interest in exporting
whatever odd Bible version you want.  I encourage you to export things on your
own. Besides, you might learn something. :-)


Bible Texts: Installing
-----------------------
Upload your .vpl and .conf files to your text directory (default is
/var/bible/).  Then go to Bible Admin => View Texts, reload the page so it can
detect those files.  Press "Install" next to the text you want, and confirm
it.  If you server is slow, this might take a while.  But on my P4 laptop
it takes less than 15 seconds for an average-sized text.


Strong's Concordance
--------------------
This module supports Strong's Concordance.  Download it from Bible for Xaraya's
homepage.  It integrates nicely with Sword's KJV Bible which has Strong's
numbers embedded.  This makes words and phrases in the KJV click-able, which
brings up Strong's definition for that number.  I don't know if other texts
have Strong's numbers embedded, but if so, they should work the same way.


Usage
---------------
There is a Help section in the User menu.  Please refer to it as needed.
Basically, just enter your query and press "Go"!

This module also includes a block for displaying random Bible verses.  See
xardocs/randomblock.txt for important usage information.


---------------
Curtis Farnham - http://www.curtisfarnham.com/
