
Notes on the function publications_user_display
If passed an itemid this function will return the page with that ID
If instead passed a name or ID of a publication type it will show the view of that publication type
If nothing is passed it will show the default page of this module
If no default page is defined it will show the custom 404 page of this module
If no 404 page is defined it will show the standard Xaraya 404 page


Publications each belong to a publication type
The publication type is given by the field pubtype_id

Publications can also belong to a set of translations.
The translation is referenced with the field parent_id.
Parent_id = 0 means that this is the default translation.
Any other value n in this field means that this is a trnaslation of the base document with itemid = n

Publications also belong to a document tree. The tree may contain documents of different publication types.
Translations of a given base document are not shown on the tree. Instead they can be viewed through the publications view.

When a document is to be displayed, the publications module will first check the current locale. It will then try and display the document's translation in the current locale.
If no translation is found it will diplay the document in the default locale.

Note that the available locales are given by Xaraya, while the translations can be defined by the publications modiule.
This means there may be translations of documents that are never displayed because Xaraya does not (yet) have their locale defined.

At present documents can be viewed and managed through both the user and dmin interfaces. The 2 may show slightly different behavior.

Like the xarpages module, the publications module can be configured to define the following special pages:

- a defualt page that is displayed in the absence of any other page.
- a general error page that can be used to display custom erro messaged.
- a custon 404 "not found" page that is displayed when the requested page is not available.
- a custom "no access" page if the user does not have access rights to the requsted page.

A publication has 2 template views:
- summary view: shows the most important of the document's fields
- detail view: shows all the document's visible fields
- input form allows you to enter content 

A custom template for any document can be created for each of these.
A document can also be assinged a custom page template (i.e. other than default.xt).
A document can also be assinged a custom theme to display in from among any of the active themes.