Forum and Topic Tracking - some notes
========================

The basic idea behind this, is to show a user any new topics or posts that have been
created since they lsat looked. There are a few problems with this:

- We cannot keep track of whether a user has visited every single topic, as the
  amount of data required when the forums scale up would be excessive.
- We need to be able to 'tick off' topics that have been read in any random order,
  so a simple 'last viewed' time that would apply to all topics would not suffice.

We need the concept of 'last visited time' to operate this. The last visited time
should be a timestamp reset each time the user starts a session in the forums.

phpBB will show a forum as containing unread posts, so long as there is at least one
topic that shows up as containing unread posts. As soon as each of those topics is
read, then the forum will show up as containing no new posts. Note that topics can
be read in any order, so this is not a simple timestamp comparison against the
forum latest post timestamp. It also means that in order to set the flag on the forum,
it is necessary to dig into the topics, something we would like to avoid (OR perhaps
the last visited time is used to set the flag, a list of unread topics is built
when the user goes into the forum, and then the forum-level flag is only reset when
that topic list marks all topics as read).

For each forum, we know:

- The timestamp of the last new topic created
- The timestamp of the last new topic reply
(taking the latest of each, we have the timestamp of the latest post)

We also know the last visit time the user made to each forum.

We can assume there are new posts in a forum if the last user visit timestamp is
less than the latest post timestamp of that forum.

It gets more complicated when the visit timestamp is later than the latest post.
Then we need to look at the array of visited topics.

When entering a forum, all posts on the first page should be stored in an array
against the current user. Better still, all posts on any page should be stored
and merged with the current array, with the older posts being truncated.

For each of those topics, the array would store the last visited time. There would be
no time for a topic that has not been visited at all.

When the forum is viewed, any topic that has been updated (a newer post than the last
visited time) can have its time reset. (can we do this - how do we reorder, i.e. tell
which are the older topics to truncate?)

A forum would therefore then be one which has at least one unread topic, i.e. one topic
that does not have a last visited time.

